VB TO C++ PART I:

Hey, welcome to c++. As I have said in the intro, this tutorial is for people who have a pretty good knowledge of vb, and I already claimed that I am not a c++ master, but I just started learning c++ (from 4 years of vb), and I know the answers to the common questions that vb to c++ programmers ask!

Have you ever wondered how a program has its own classname (when you use an API spy under notepad for example and it is 'Notepad' or for aol and it was 'AOLFrame 25'? And then you notice that vb automatically sets your classname to something like 'ThunderRT6FormDC'! This is because vb limits you (extremely) to the actual activating and initializing of your window to one line of code "FORM1.LOAD". If you have already opened c++ and tried making a standard 'Win32 Application', then you were totally lost when there was no forms or anything. That is because those forms are actually just classes that are drawn at runtime (Hence Beginners All-Purpose Symbolic Instruction Code [BASIC] ). There is no allowing you to do what you want! C++ Doesn't do ANYTHING for you, which sometimes you will say that you miss "FORM1.LOAD", yet it helps out extremely and it is just cool when you learn how to function Win32 Apps!

Now, if you have seen the vast amount of project types that you can create, then you could be already lost! Don't fear, the only one you will need for this tutorial are 'Win32 Application', and nothing else. Now you have probably heard of something called MFC, or Microsoft Foundation Classes, which is just (in my opinion) a more advanced VB for c++! It is nice, but you mind as well use VB if you are going to learn MFC. I don't want to hurt you MFC app'ers that are reading this, but honestly, it is very similar to VB. You, like me, are a code junkie, and you want to learn the REAL (and yes, hard) way to utilize C++! Now, if you have seen the "Win32 Console Application", that is just DOS. I am not using that, sorry! Maybe in my next tutorial. 

Back to what I was saying, there are really (other than MFC) 2 ways to use Win32, the Dialog way (if you have used an API spy, it is the windows that have #32770 as a classname), or you can use the CreateWindow (THE HARDEST WAY!) way to make forms and such. Now, I have provided examples for both of these, both of which can be quite confusing if you don't break it down! So I am going to run you through a crash course in the C++ IDE, then in C++ Syntax (Shortened of course), then we will dive into some programs. The rest of the tutorial will be in .htm (HTML) format for use of screenshots!